Waterfall Model
A linear and sequential approach where each phase must be completed before the next begins.
phases - (SDLC PHASES)
requirements analysis
system design (design phase)
development
testing 
deployment -  integration
maintainence

Adv 
Quality of the product is good
since requirement change is not allowed,chances of finding bugs is less
prefered for small projects where requirement is freezed.

dis adv
requirement change is not allowed
defect in requirement continues is the next phases.
testing is only starts after coding


Spiral model

Spiral model is also called iterative model, in which it overcomes the drawback of waterfall model.
One cycle will contain all the 4 phases(planning(requirement analysis), risk analysis( design), design and development, testing(evaluation)	
After completion of cycle one the software is delivered to the customer.
software is released in multiple version. so this is called version control model.

Adv 
testing is done on every cycle 
customer willget to use the software for every module.
requirement changes are allowed after every cycle.
	
Dis adv
requirement change is not allowed in between,
every cycle of spiral model looks like waterfall model
there is no testing in requirement and desgning phase


V model
The V-Model (short for Verification and Validation Model) is a software development method where every step of building the software has a matching 
test step. 
it exyends the  feature of traditional waterfall model by allowing testing and validation in each phase of the development stage.
Imagine the letter V:

The left side is where you plan and design.

The right side is where you test and check.

The bottom point is where you write the code

adv 
testing is done in each and every pahses
defects arefound early
emphasizes early test planing


dis adv 
not suitable for complex and iterative projects
documentation and early investment is more.
not flexible to changes




Validation and verification

Verification checks whether  we are building the right product.
it focuses on documnetation
it invloves 
reviews
walkthrough
inspections
